README.md, before:

# Multifactor project

## Description

---

## Project environment
To set up the project, first install anaconda and github cli. (Currently only compatible with windows)

1. Open CMD

2. Use `cd` to navtigate to desired folder location

3. Use `git clone https://github.com/etccapital/MultiFactor` to clone the lastest version of the repo

    Note: A login window will pop up to enter credentials for the github 

4. Use `conda env create -f environment.yml` to download configure the all packages needed

5. Use `conda env list` to list all conda packages available. Make sure environment `multifactor` is in the list

6. Download `rq_crendential.json` and save it to root project folder

7. Open `Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb` and run the import cell to make sure all packages are instaslled properly

To inspect packages installed or to make changes:

1. Open CMD

2. Use `conda activate multifactor`

---

## Workflow

1. Download zipped price data and extract them to `.data/price`

2. Download factor data from ricequant with `data_download_and_process.ipynb`

3. Or download zipped factor data and extract them to `.data/factor`

4. (Optional) analyze missing values in price and factor with `data_download_and_process.ipynb`

5. Run `Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb` to examin single factor testing result

---

## Project structure

```
.
├── data/
│   ├── price
│   └── factor
├── Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb
├── data_download_and_process.ipynb
├── dataloader.py (currently_retired)
├── dataloader_ricequant.py
├── Ricequant API.ipynb (To be refactored)
├── environment.yml
├── README.md
└── rq_credential.json (Not commited to repo)
```

Project structure generated with https://tree.nathanfriend.io/

Commit message:

Updated Readme to include Version Control of .ipynb Files

README.md, after:

# Multifactor project

## Description

---

## Project environment
To set up the project, first install anaconda and github cli. (Currently only compatible with windows)

1. Open CMD

2. Use `cd` to navtigate to desired folder location

3. Use `git clone https://github.com/etccapital/MultiFactor` to clone the lastest version of the repo

    Note: A login window will pop up to enter credentials for the github 

4. Use `conda env create -f environment.yml` to download configure the all packages needed

5. Use `conda env list` to list all conda packages available. Make sure environment `multifactor` is in the list

6. Download `rq_crendential.json` and save it to root project folder

7. Convert target python files into jupyter notebooks. See "Version Control of .ipynb Files" section below.

8. Open `Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb` and run the import cell to make sure all packages are installed properly

To inspect packages installed or to make changes:

1. Open CMD

2. Use `conda activate multifactor`

---

## Version Control of .ipynb Files
Currently, we have the following notebooks on our local laptops: data_download_and_process.ipynb   Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb 
However, version control will be impossible if we directly push them to the repo in the form of .ipynb files. This is because jupyter notebooks are               json files and cannot be displayed properly in github. As a result, we will use jupytext(`pip install jupytext --upgrade`) to convert between .ipynb and .py files, and store only .py files in the shared repo. Taking data_download_and_process.ipynb as an example, when you finish editing it on your local laptop, run `jupytext --to py:percent --update data_download_and_process.ipynb` in CMD and the changes will be updated to data_download_and_process.py. Then you can merge changes and resolve conflicts in data_download_and_process.py as in other python files. To fetch changes from data_download_and_process.py to data_download_and_process.ipynb, run `jupytext --to notebook --update data_download_and_process.py` in CMD. Note that the `--update` option is essential as it will only update the code and comments in the .ipynb file while preserving graphs and outputs.

## Workflow

1. Download zipped price data and extract them to `.data/price`

2. Download factor data from ricequant with `data_download_and_process.ipynb`

3. Or download zipped factor data and extract them to `.data/factor`

4. (Optional) analyze missing values in price and factor with `data_download_and_process.ipynb`

5. Run `Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb` to examine single factor testing result

---

## Project structure

```
.
├── data/
│   ├── price
│   └── factor
├── Alphalens_single_factor_testing.ipynb
├── data_download_and_process.ipynb
├── dataloader.py (currently_retired)
├── dataloader_ricequant.py
├── Ricequant API.ipynb (To be refactored)
├── environment.yml
├── README.md
└── rq_credential.json (Not commited to repo)
```

Project structure generated with https://tree.nathanfriend.io/
